142
Absorption Fields
Reduces most incoming damage to this unit, scaling up as damage increases. Specifically: reduces 40% of any damage taken after 2; after all other damage reduction has been applied.

133
Advanced Fire Control
Shots from Overwatch no longer suffer any Aim penalty.

32
Aggression
Confers +10% critical chance per enemy in sight (max +30%). Aliens visible via squadsight are not counted for bonus.

132
Automated Threat Assessment
Confers 0.5 DR (50% chance to absorb one point of damage) at all times, and confers +15 defense when in overwatch until the unit takes an overwatch shot.

8
Battle Scanner
Scanning device that, when thrown, creates a new source of vision for 2 turns. Grants 2 uses. Increases throw range for battle scanners by 70% (does not stack with other perks).

145
Body Shield
The nearest visible enemy suffers -20 aim and cannot critically hit this unit

81
Bombard
Throw or launch grenades over exceptionally long distances (+50%).

39
Bring 'Em On
Confers 1-4 bonus damage during critical hits (which is then multiplied by 50% due to the critical hit). The damage is higher when more enemies are in view (including squad sight vision). This results in +1.5 dmg for 1-2 enemies, +3 dmg for 3-4 enemies, +4.5 dmg for 5-6 enemies, +6 dmg for 7 or more enemies.

40
Close Combat Specialist
Confers a reaction shot against any enemy who closes to within 4 tiles. Does not require Overwatch. Warning: Will activate even if unit is concealed.

34
Close Encounters
The first standard shot made within 4 tiles of the target does not cost an action. Cannot combine with Run And Gun.

131
Collateral Damage
Area of effect attack that destroys most cover and hits all eligible targets for 1/3rd damage. Unlike most abilities, damage increasing items and perks also only apply 1/3rd damage (note: HEAT and flak cannot be reduced below +2 damage though). This attack cannot critically hit. Shredder ammo and holo-targeting are NOT applied.

51
Combat Drugs
Smoke grenades confer +20 Will and +20% critical chance in addition to the original 20 defense. The area of effect is also increased by 25%.

95
Concealment
When the soldier moves to high cover, enemies without special capabilities will not target the soldier (but CAN sense him/her). Does not work if any enemies have line of sight to the soldier's starting position. Leaving cover, being flanked, firing, hacking arrays, and capturing meld will break this concealment. Low Profile units will not gain this bonus by occupying low cover. Firing from concealment grants +30% crit.

47
Covering Fire
Allows certain reaction shots to trigger on many enemy actions, not just movement (excludes reload, overwatch, and hunker down actions).

134
Damage Control
When this unit takes damage, all further damage will be reduced by 1 or 2 points (1.5 DR) for the next 2 turns.

15
Damn Good Ground
Confers +10 Aim and +10 Defense against enemies at lower elevation, in addition to the usual elevation bonuses.

25
Danger Zone
Increases area of effect of Suppression, rockets, grenade launchers and proximity mine launchers.

116
Deadeye
Confers +15 aim against flying targets.

52
Dense Smoke
Increases the defense bonus from smoke grenade from 20 to 40.

9
Disabling Shot
Allows sniper rifles to fire a shot that causes the target's main weapon to malfunction. The target may use Reload to fix the weapon. 2 turn cooldown. Cannot cause critical hits.

13
Double Tap
Allows a second action restricted to Standard Shot, Precision Shot, or Disabling Shot as long as the first action was a Standard Shot, Precision Shot, Disabling Shot, or Flush provided no costly actions were taken. 1 turn cooldown. (Note: Double Tap is cancelled in the following cases: (1) the first shot results in a kill, and no more enemies are visible to the unit, or (2) for gunners only, the first shot depletes the ammo.)

11
Executioner
Confers +10 aim and +10 critical chance against targets at or below 50% health.

27
Extra Conditioning
Confers 1-4 bonus health based on which type of armor is equipped. Heavier armor increases the bonus.

48
Field Medic
For soldiers, grants one free use of a medikit per mission and allows additional medikit items to be used two times per battle instead of one. Also allows Restorative Mist items to be used three times per battle instead of once.

150
Field Surgeon
Reduces (or, for 1 HP flesh wounds, eliminates) Wounded timer on soldiers who sustained HP damage but were not Critically Wounded. Does not affect wound sustained by sending fatigued soldier on a mission.

114
Fire in the Hole
Grants +10 aim for purposes of reducing scatter if the soldier has not moved this turn. Increases range of Blaster Launcher (which does not scatter).

18
Fire Rocket
Fire a high explosive rocket using an equipped launcher.

37
Flush
Fire a shot that may cause non-flying enemies to run to new cover. The shot is easy to hit with (+30 aim), but does reduced damage (-50% base weapon damage), and consumes extra ammo (2 ammo). Hunkered units will not relocate.

24
Grenadier
Allows 2 destructive grenades in a single inventory slot, and the soldier may throw grenades 20 percent further.

90
HEAT Ammo
Your primary weapon, not including shotguns, does an additional 50% of its base weapon damage to robotic enemies after any damage reduction is assessed.

64
HEAT Warheads
Your rockets and grenades do an additional 50% damage to robotic enemies after damage reduction is assessed.

167
Hit and Run
Your first standard shot of each turn against an uncovered or flanked target does not cost an action. Does not work against flying units, and cannot be used if Run N' Gun activated.

19
Holo-Targeting
Shooting at or suppressing enemies confers +10 Aim to allies' attacks on those enemies until end of turn.

14
In the Zone
Killing a flanked or uncovered target does not cost an action. Confers a -1 base damage and -10% critical hit chance penalty for each successive In The Zone kill.

66
Javelin Rockets
Your rockets now travel much further(+33%) and can hit targets beyond your visual range.

137
Jetboot Module
When activated, confers the ability to jump to normally inaccessible heights for the rest of the turn.

41
Killer Instinct
Activating Run and Gun grants +50% critical damage for the rest of the turn.

126
Light 'Em Up
Standard shots no longer end the turn, if taken as the first action.

35
Lightning Reflexes
The hit chance of reaction fire against this unit is reduced by 90 percent for the first shot, and by 70 percent for additional shots.

58
Lock N' Load
Primary weapons receive one additional shot or burst before a reload is required, and you may reload your primary weapon as the first action of your turn without ending the turn.

159
Lone Wolf
+10 Aim and Critical Chance if not within 7 tiles of an allied unit.

5
Low Profile
Makes partial cover grant the defense bonus of full cover.

93
Mayhem
Confers +2 damage for suppression, SAWs, LMGs, explosive grenades, proximity mines and rocket launchers. Confers +4 damage for sniper and long rifles, marksman's, strike and reflex rifles using Standard Shot or Precision Shot.

136
One for All
When activated, the MEC becomes a high cover element and gains 1 point of damage reduction. Moving or using an arm-based weapon will return the MEC to standard posture.

10
Opportunist
Eliminates the Aim penalty on reaction shots, and allows reaction shots to cause critical hits.

53
Packmaster
Limited-use small items (including those from perks) receive 1 additional use.

162
Paramedic
Once per turn, this unit may use a medikit without spending an action.

141
Platform Stability
Shots taken before any costly actions have +10 Aim and +10% critical chance. Also grants +10 aim for purposes of reducing scatter if the soldier has not moved this turn, and increases range of Blaster Launcher (which does not scatter).

2
Precision Shot
With sniper/long rifles, fire a shot that ignores squadsight critical penalties, has an additional +30% critical chance, and provides extra damage on critical hits based on the soldier's weapon tech level (+2 for ballistic/laser/gauss, +3 for pulse, +4 for plasma). With marksman's and strike rifles, allows an unlimited range shot with no other bonuses. 2 turn cooldown.

94
Ranger
Confers +1 damage with primary weapons, rocket launchers, MEC secondary weapons and sidearms. Negates the long-range accuracy penalty with sidearms when shooting beyond 14 meters.

36
Rapid Fire
Take two shots against a single target in quick succession. Each shot carries a -15 penalty to Aim.

24
Rapid Reaction
If on Overwatch, confers a bonus reaction shot (to a maximum three shots total) for every reaction shot that is a hit.

144
Reactive Targeting Sensors
Unit gets a free shot back at the first enemy who attacks the MEC each turn, provided there's enough ammo to do so.

26
Ready for Anything
If the unit fires without taking any other costly action, it automatically enters overwatch at the end of its turn.

102
Repair
For X-Com, grants +2 Arc Thrower charges. On drones, allows repair of robotic units.

139
Repair Servos
Repairs up to 50% of damage taken (max 2 per turn). Value on icon represents repairs remaining at 2 points per hp. Additional damage taken before repairs are complete reduces how much can be repaired from prior hits by 50%.

43
Resilience
Confers immunity to critical hits.

56
Revive
Allows Medikits to revive critically wounded Soldiers at 33% of maximum health instead of just stabilizing them.

6
Run & Gun
Allows firing or Overwatch after Dashing on the turn Run and Gun is activated. 2 turn cooldown.

59
Sapper
Increases grenade and proximity mine damage by +1. Also triples damage to the environment.

55
Savior
Provides 2 item-free medikit charges and +4 healing bonus to medikits. Restorative Mist units restore three more health per use.

54
Sentinel
Allows two reaction shots during Overwatch, instead of only one.

153
Sharpshooter
+10 critical chance in all situations, +10 Aim against enemies in full cover.

143
Shock-Absorbent Armor
Damage received from enemies within 4 tiles is reduced by 33%.

92
Shock & Awe
Allows 1 additional standard rocket to be fired per battle.

22
Shredder Ammo
The Shredder debuff causes any unit hit to take 40% additional damage (after DR, rounded down) from all sources. Gunners and MECs apply the Shredder debuff for the remainder of the current turn to any target struck by their primary weapon. Rocketeers get an extra rocket that is weaker than a standard rocket (60% rounded down), cannot penetrate cover, has a +50% larger blast radius, and applies the Shredder debuff to all targets struck by the rocket for the next 3 turns.

91
Smoke & Mirrors
Allows one additional use of all support grenades during each mission. It also increases charges from Smoke Grenade and Battlescanner perks by 1.

82
Smoke Grenade
Deploy a smoke grenade once per mission. The smoke confers +20 defense and prevents flanking for all enemy and allied units. Lasts 2 turns. Taking the perk on level up also allows an additional action after deploying a smoke grenade.

16
Snapshot
For snipers, removes the sniper rifle's restriction on firing and Overwatch after taking a costly action. Any shots taken after using any costly action suffer a -10 Aim penalty. For rocketeers, reduces the aim and range penalty for launching a rocket after taking a costly action to 25% (from 50%).

31
Sprinter
Grants +4 mobility (roughly 3 tiles movement).

3
Squadsight
Allows firing at targets in any ally's sight radius within weapon range, but critical chance suffers a -20% penalty. Extended range weapons (MEC primary weapons, Marksman and Strike Rifles, and LMGs) gain roughly five extra tiles range. Sniper rifles have infinite range. Overwatch fire does not extend to squadsight ranges, except with Marksman's and Strike Rifles.

154
Steadfast
Never panic as a result of getting wounded, allies panicking, allies getting wounded or killed, or the intimidation ability.

21
Suppression
Fire a barrage that pins down a target, granting Opportunist reaction fire against it if it moves. Imposes a -30 penalty to aim and reduces range of many area-of-effect attacks, including grenades. Also negates overwatch from the target while suppression is active. Lastly, enemy AI prioritizes breaking the suppression by shooting the suppressor, so it functions as a mini-taunt. Not possible with shotguns, sniper rifles, or strike rifles.

33
Tactical Sense
Confers +5 Defense per enemy in sight (max +20).

112
Tandem Warheads
Explosives employed by this soldier do full damage to the maximum extent of their area of effect.

135
Vital Point Targeting
Confers 2 bonus damage with primary guns, and +1 damage with sidearms, against humans and alien targets whose species have been autopsied.

17
Will to Survive
Gain 1.5 Damage Reduction (DR) if in cover and not flanked.
